  For my ideation for CART 315, I started by focusing on two key ideas: one: that I'd like to work on a 3D Platformer of some kind, and two: that i'd like to work on the design value of Skill, Strategy, Chance and Uncertainty. 
  The first of three ideas which stuck out to me came during in-class ideation. I'll label it Bacula; it involves a Dracula-like character whose head is backwards, making the camera angle for the game's 3D platforming backwards. This means that levels include all sorts of mirrors in order to view what lies ahead of him. This concept derived from a keyword combination I came up with: "camera challenge". The difficulty involved with movement would be a unique, easily controlled aspect.
  The second idea I came up with is a 3D Platformer which has roughly 50 playable characters - all a group which follows eachother closely, similarly to a trail. This is roughly equivalent to a 3D version of an earlier project of mine, Lemmings, and a much older PC game of the same name. The challenge would come from hazards following a set timing, and the navigation of the group requiring planning so that each member can safely traverse. This is an idea that I think has a lot of potential, but may also pose much more significant technical challenges.
  The third idea is rather peculiar- I'd call it a random platformer. Here, levels' whole structure is randomly generated, using a mixture of random architecture segments and hazards to make for platforming challenges which are unpredictable and potentially varying in difficulty or solution. This project would involve a need for many, many variations in order to have them remain consistently interesting, though its technicals are comparatively simple.
  As of writing this, I'm unsure which direction I'll pursue for a demo. I hope that, this time next week, I'll have a clear direction sorted so that I may make something that'll be useful to the creation of something tangible.
